Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/protecting_model_guide.md

# Using Encrypted Models with OpenVINO&trade;  {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_protecting_model_guide}

Deploying deep-learning capabilities to edge devices can present security
challenges, likes of: ensuring inference integrity or providing copyright
protection of your deep-learning models.

One possible solution is to use cryptography to protect models as they are
deployed and stored on edge devices. Model encryption, decryption and
authentication are not provided by OpenVINO&trade; but can be implemented with
third-party tools (like OpenSSL\*). While implementing encryption, ensure that 
latest versions of tools is used and follow cryptography best practices.

This guide presents how to use OpenVINO securely with protected models.

## Secure Model Deployment

After a model is optimized by the OpenVINO Model Optimizer, it's deployed

> to target devices in the Intermediate Representation (IR) format. An optimized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to target devices in the OpenVINO Intermediate Representation (OpenVINO IR) format. An optimized
```

model is stored on edge device and is executed by the OpenVINO Runtime. 

> (ONNX, PDPD models can also be read natively by the OpenVINO Runtime.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ONNX and PDPD models can be read natively by the OpenVINO Runtime as well.
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
ONNX and PDPD models can be read natively by OpenVINO Runtime as well.
```

The OpenVINO Runtime requires model decryption before loading. Allocate
a temporary memory block for model decryption and use the 
`ov::Core::read_model` method to load the model from a memory buffer.

> For more information, check `ov::Core` Class Reference Documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the `ov::Core` Class Reference Documentation.
```

@snippet snippets/protecting_model_guide.cpp part0

> Hardware-based protection such as Intel&reg; Software Guard Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hardware-based protection such as Intel Software Guard Extensions
```

> (Intel&reg; SGX) can be used to protect decryption operation secrets and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Intel SGX) can be used to protect decryption operation secrets and
```

> bind them to a device. For more information, check [Intel&reg; Software Guard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bind them to a device. For more information, see the [Intel Software Guard
```

Extensions](https://software.intel.com/en-us/sgx).

> Use `ov::Core::read_model` to set model representations and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `ov::Core::read_model` to set model representations and
```

> - Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit home page: [https://software.intel.com/en-us/openvino-toolkit](https://software.intel.com/en-us/openvino-toolkit)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit [home page](https://software.intel.com/en-us/openvino-toolkit).
```

> - Model Optimizer Developer Guide: [Model Optimizer Developer Guide](../MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Model Optimizer [ Developer Guide](../MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md).
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
- Model Optimizer [Developer Guide](../MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md).
```

> - [OpenVINO™ runTime User Guide](openvino_intro.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [OpenVINO™ Runtime User Guide](openvino_intro.md).
```

> - For more information on Sample Applications, check [OpenVINO Samples Overview](Samples_Overview.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For more information on Sample Applications, see the [OpenVINO Samples Overview](Samples_Overview.md)
```

> - For information on a set of pre-trained models, check [Overview of OpenVINO™ Toolkit Pre-Trained Models](@ref omz_models_group_intel)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For information on a set of pre-trained models, see the [Overview of OpenVINO™ Toolkit Pre-Trained Models](@ref omz_models_group_intel).
```

> - For IoT Libraries and Code Samples, check [Intel® IoT Developer Kit](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For IoT Libraries and Code Samples, see the [Intel® IoT Developer Kit](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit).
```
